[Music]
hi guys I'm Laura Vitale and on this
episode of Laura in the kitchen I am so
excited to share with you my fried
chicken recipe
I've had this requested here for years
and years and the reason why I've been
holding off on is because I feel like
along with a lot of recipes Fried
Chicken is something people are very
territorial territorial about and they
only like it their way or no way and if
it's not the way they make and then it's
not authentic and I'm not saying mine's
authentic by any means it's
authentically delicious and this is a
recipe I go to for just a classic fried
chicken recipe everyone loves it for the
base you just need a few ingredients
which is gonna be your chicken and I'll
talk about this in a minute the key is
some buttermilk and some hot sauce now
there's gonna be more ingredients to
come but this is the base this is what's
incredibly important number one this by
the way I dissolve our batali rules
number one the rule is the chicken must
be bone-in skin-on if it's not bone-in
or skin-on do yourself a favor and girls
and chicken breast and you're good to go
nothing wrong with it whatsoever it's
not gonna be fried chicken in my opinion
not really good fried chicken the second
thing is you need buttermilk because the
buttermilk what's gonna do it's going to
incredibly that it's a bit I think that
makes your chicken incredibly tender
it's a tenderizer so once it sits in it
for a few hours if that's magic now I
know some people you use like a water
and salt mixture to brine their chicken
which works just as well I've eaten it
that way and delicious
I prefer buttermilk now the pieces of
chicken you used for buttermilk ought to
you for me it's got to be dark meat
which is why I use the leg and the thigh
you can use drumstick and the thigh you
can use the breast
make sure it's bone-in skin-on and cut
it in half otherwise the breast is way
too big if you go to your butcher you
should be able to buy pieces already
broken like this or do you local
supermarket they'll have packs of
chicken already cut up and I always
choose the dark meat you need about
three pounds total but this is what I'm
using so enough said let's get this
thing going
the first thing I'm gonna do is I'm
going to take my chicken again
in on whatever pieces you prefer if you
want to do the wing if you want to do
the breast and make sure you cut it in
half cuz that's really important now you
can add any hot sauce you want to this
you can use Tabasco you can use a
buffalo sauce but for me my all-time
favorite hot sauce is sriracha so I'm
gonna use a really good squirt of it
because I like a little bit of heat into
my buttermilk mix this up it's gonna be
really lovely and spicy and pour this
all over my chicken Oh looks so good and
you can really smell the chili and the
garlic from the sriracha it's just oh
it's delicious so now I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna cover this first of all you
want to make sure that your chicken is
really covered in the buttermilk I'm
gonna cover this I'm gonna pop it into
the fridge a minimum of two hours or you
could do this overnight I'm gonna leave
it in there for a few hours I've got
some things to do so it's gonna sit in
there and perform its magic and when we
come when I come back I'm going to show
you the second step which is this is
important I think I just took my chicken
out of the fridge that's put in there
for several hours so I know it's done
its job overnight it's even better not
gonna lie so now all I'm gonna do is
actually making the second part of a
fried chicken which is the flour the
flour coating but I have here is some
all-purpose flour and add to this I'm
gonna add in some spices my favorite
combination is some steak seasoning but
you want to make sure that you buy the
kind of salt free I've also got
granulated onion and garlic and I've got
paprika you can add whatever you want
you know whatever you feel like tastes
really good to you I want a little extra
black pepper even though there's a lot
of black pepper in this big seasoning I
want a little extra and I always make
sure that you buy your season a minute I
love seasoning but I think it's
fantastic buy them salt free because
sometimes if you don't they are so salty
it's impossible to put um you know
enough to have good flavor without your
food tasting super salty so I'm gonna do
now is just stir this together you know
whisk it together would not you want to
make sure that the seasoning is
distributed well throughout the flour
and I also have a cast iron skillet
there with some
and oil that's been preheating I want
that to be around 365 degrees and I also
have my oven on to 375 because that's
what we're gonna finish the chicken
because sometimes what happens is by the
time it's fully cooked through the
outside it gets really dark and we don't
want that I've got a baking dish your
baking sheet here with a cooling rack on
top and that's because I just took this
out of the fridge now I want this to
come to temperature for about 20 minutes
I want this to come to room temperature
for a good 20 minutes otherwise if we
were to cook this straight in the hot
oil it's cold so it's gonna seize up and
you're gonna have a really tough chicken
so you want to always let your meat rest
of room temperature for about 20 minutes
before you cook it
now what I do is I take my chicken and
see if I can do like an assembly line I
take my chicken by the hot sauce and
buttermilk coat it really well in that
flour mixture make sure it's really
nicely coated
and then I just put it on my baking rack
here and what happens is it not only
comes to room temperature and it's
resting a little bit but the flour kind
of dries up a little bit and sticks to
the chicken and therefore when you put
it in the hot oil all the excess flour
isn't going to burn so I'm just gonna
continue to to do that let those sit for
about 20 minutes and then we'll fry them
up my chickens been sitting at room
temperature for 20 minutes and as you
can see the flour has kind of like
adhered to the batter which is exactly
what we want is gonna create a beautiful
crust now I've got my oven preheated to
375 I also have another baking dish here
and then have it lined with aluminum
foil just you know just coz just going
to a side sometimes and I've got a wire
rack on top because we want to keep the
chicken elevated at all times we're
gonna start the chicken in the hot oil
we're gonna finish cooking it in the
oven so I've got my peanut oil here
preheated it should be really nice and
hot I'm gonna do this in two batches
presentation side down so skin side down
yes see those bubbles that's what you're
looking for it's only gonna be in the
hot oil for four to five minutes on each
side not gonna be long enough to cook
the chicken completely which is why
we're gonna pop this back into the oven
now I'm gonna do this
because the thighs are really big I'm
gonna do four of the drumsticks I'm
gonna let those cook I've got a splatter
screen here I'm gonna tidy up and clean
up cook them on both sides and so
they're a beautiful crispy golden-brown
color put them on a wire rack I'll show
you what they look like so we can put
the whole thing in the oven I just took
my last three pieces of chicken out of
the hot oil they only cooked for about
four minutes on each side cuz you really
want to make sure that oil is really
nice and hot so that all you're doing at
this point really is cooking the outside
it makes sure that the crispy crust is
happening and then you're gonna continue
cooking the rest the inside in the oven
now the reason why again it's on a wire
rack is because you want to make sure
the chicken is elevated otherwise if you
want to put your chicken pieces straight
on your baking sheet
what's gonna happen the bottom is gonna
get soggy you don't want that you want
the air to Jews around I made up that
word that's right you want the error to
circle around the chicken and get crispy
I'll continue no remain crispy and the
inside is gonna cook so I'm gonna put
this in the oven at 375 for another 10
to 15 minutes I want to test it with an
instant their mom and Sarita thermometer
it should read 165 degrees Fahrenheit
let those rest for about five minutes
and then we all ready to dig in my
chicken was in the oven for exactly 12
minutes so make sure you have an
instant-read thermometer on hand just to
check it cuz you don't want to overcook
it cuz I think goes dry you don't want
to dry fried chicken not me now why
don't you point something out if you
don't like your fried chicken as dark as
I do because I really like a deep deep
golden crispy brown you can certainly
cook it less just keep with eye on I may
be cooking on for three minutes on each
side instead of four minutes on each
side it's completely up to you just keep
in mind that the color on the crust is
the color you want to eat it so the
insights and the continue cooking in the
oven so if you like the outside and
lightly golden brown make up light and
golden brown may not be that's crispy
though so I'm saying I had to serve it
whoops a little sriracha I'm telling you
this stuff my obsession I let it sit
here for about five minutes and this has
my name written all over it
let's go
[Music]
that is the answer to die in my chicken
fried chicken is it it is that is I'm
too excited to even talk probably
properly seriously if you want the
perfect recipe for fried chicken girl or
a new kitchen comm follow these few very
simple steps the recipe really it's up
to you whatever spices you want to put
in there and you put in there just
following the steps is really what
guarantees you got guarantees that fried
delicious crispy juicy fried chicken and
the cold leftovers nothing like them I
hope you enjoy spending time with me and
as always I will see you all very soon
bye bye
[Music]
you